# SnippetNetwork

In its first iteration, [snippetnetwork.com](https://snippetnetwork.com) converts pieces of code to VS Code's JSON syntax for user-defined Snippets. Snippets facilitate greatly improved productivity when working in Visual Studio Code by allowing commonly reused code to be quickly and easily added to existing code. After a user-defined Snippet has been written in the appropriate \<language\>.json file, all it takes is triggering IntelliSense to suggest the Snippet by typing the "Prefix" value and pressing tab.

After the Snippet has been set up, using it while working through projects is trivial. But writing the JSON code for a Snippet is tedious and time-consuming, exponentially so the more lines the code contains, as each line must be its own string in the Snippet's "Body" array. The first iteration of this project solves a problem for which there are already solutions, but my intention for the scope of this project involves more than the basic code-to-Snippet conversion functionality. See the "Future" section for details. Additionally, I have found the tab stop/placeholder text functionality lacking in other solutions, and I desired a better solution.

## How To Use

### Snippets in VS Code have four characteristics
  
1. __Title__
    - A very short description of the purpose/contents of the code generated by the Snippet
    - Displayed at the top of the box that appears after the Snippet "Prefix" text has been typed in VS Code
    - Corresponds to the __Title__ text input in the SnippetNetwork app
2. __Prefix__
    - The characters that, when typed, trigger VS Code's IntelliSense engine to suggest the Snippet
    - Prefixes should typically be short, unique, and relevant to the purpose/contents of the Snippet, e.g. for a range-based for loop, `:for` may be a good choice
    - Corresponds to the __Prefix__ text input in the app
3. __Description__
    - A longer description of the purpose/contents of the code within the Snippet
    - Displayed in the box that appears after the Snippet "Prefix" text has been typed in VS Code
    - Corresponds to the __Description__ textarea input in the app
4. __Body__
    - This contains the code that is generated after triggering the Snippet and pressing tab in VS Code
    - Simply copy and paste the code you'd like to use into the __Code__ textarea, or manually type code into the element
    - Certain special characters are automatically escaped (i.e. quotation marks and backslashes), though you may find the need to manually escape certain characters. If you find issues with this, please submit a bug report

### Tab Stops

Additionally, tab stops with or without placeholder text can be added. After the Snippet's code has been inserted in VS Code, each tab stop is reached sequentially by pressing the tab key. Placeholder text can optionally be added for each tab stop in order to suggest what should go in each tab stop. For example, a Snippet for an if check may have a tab stop where the condition would go with placeholder text of `condition`.

To use this feature, simply place your cursor in the position of the Code element where you would like the tab stop to be inserted. Optionally type placeholder text in the __Placeholder Text__ text input and click the button below to insert it.

The order of the tab stops is specified by a number preceding the tab stop in the JSON code, and while this number is auto-incremented as you add tab stops, you will need to use the dropdown to select the correct tab stop number if you delete one or more tab stops. Typically you will not to worry about this.

To insert the final tab stop (where the cursor should end up after inserting the Snippet and filling in all other tab stops in VS Code) select "Final (0)" from the dropdown and click the button below to insert it. Final tab stops do not have placeholder text.

Tab stops and placeholder text are optional and may or not be appropriate depending on the code within each Snippet.

### Adding To VS Code

1. Copy the generated JSON Snippet code from the app
2. Open VS Code
3. Click the "gear" icon in the lower left-hand corner of the window
4. Click "User Snippets" from the menu
5. Select the file to which you'd like to add the Snippet. This will typically be the global Snippet JSON file for whichever language the code will be used in, though Workspace Snippet files can be useful as well
6. Paste the JSON Snippet code into the file (NOTE: if you have other Snippets in that file, be sure to add a common after the closing curly brace of the preceding Snippet's code)
7. Ensure that it works as desired by opening a file with an extension matching the language of the Snippet, type the Prefix text that you specified, and press tab to insert the code

## Future

The intention for this project, as the name suggests, is to become a "network" of sorts of commonly used code uploaded by users. The code's Snippet JSON code will be accessible for each piece of uploaded code, and users will be able to search for code Snippets by language, framework, API, use-case, etc, and interact with code uploaded by others by commenting, suggesting improvements, upvoting, and downvoting.

If you have interest in being involved with this project, feel free to contact me, particularly if you are a front-end developer. My skills with front-end development are limited.

## History

### Update/Bug Fix 05/25/2022

- Obtain and install HTTPS certifications.
- The copy and paste features did not function previously, as browsers require a secure connection to move data to and from the clipboard. These features now function properly.

### Update 05/12/2022

- Add copy and paste buttons.
- Add info icons next to each input and output that open modals/dialog boxes with brief instructions for use
- Styling improvements.

### Update 04/06/2022

- Refactor HTML and CSS to be responsive to viewport size.
- Disable spellcheck for text input elements.

## About

You are free to use and modify this code as you wish, though I ask that you leave the text below this in any code and documentation you release. Replace "Created By" with "Originally Created By".

Created By: [Ben Rosenberg](www.linkedin.com/in/ben-rosenberg-688a60213)

First Released: 04/01/2022
